      *** Installation of TRIP Software ***

0. Contents

rvl - framework for linking complex simulations with optimization and
numerical linear algebra

iwave - framework for timestepping simulators, with RVL hooks

repro - reproducible documents, in form of Madagascar books and papers. Depends
on TRIP, Seismic Unix, and Madagascar reproducible documents package,
which in turn requires a standard installation of TeX. See Madagascar
documentation for more on this. To build each book, run scons in
corresponding subdirectory of repro.

test - regression test package, depends on GoogleTest. Useful mainly
for code maintainers/developers. Not built by any top level
install, either local or global - to build, run scons in test
directory.

admin - useful auxiliary scripts, including SConstruct templates and
configuration files for various common combinations of software and
platform. Also trip module, used in paper/project SConstructs.

2. Installation - code

SConstruct must be installed first. SConstruct is a Python
application, so Python must be installed, version 2.7 or later.

For basic install using gcc -g, execute scons in this directory.

To control choice of compiler suite and compiler options, modify
config.py in this directory to invoke the desired options. Default
config.py is the same as admin/linux.gcc.dbg.py and uses gcc with
debug options set. Model config.py files for gcc and icc and higher
optimization levels, with and without MPI enabled, may be found in
admin.

On some systems, MPI-enabled installation requires definition of a
path to MPI source directory as environment variable MPIROOT, for
example

export MPIROOT=<path to MPI root directory>

3. Installation - docs

Command self-docs and doxygen-generated html reference material are
included in the release, and require no additional work on the user's
part.

The paper subdirectory of repro contains paper projects, each with a top level directory, usually a project subdirectory with scripts for generating intermediate data and figures, and sometimes other subdirectories. Other subdirectories of repro define Madagascar books. These build with
the Madagascar reproducible research framework. Also, many of the
project directories require Seismic Unix (unlike Madadagascar books
proper, which build with Madagascar only).

The Madagascar framework requires a standard TeX installation. The
precise requirements are described in the Madagascar documentation.

To build the reproducible documents, you will need to define several
variables in your environment, including some related to the TeX
installation, and in addition at least the following:

- PYTHONPATH, via

export PYTHONPATH=$PYTHONPATH:<path to trip>/admin

- CWPROOT = path to Seismic Unix root directory

- RSFROOT = path to Madagascar install directory

- RSFSRC  = path to Madagascar build directory

- RSFFIGS = path to a scratch directory for archiving Madagascar
graphics (.vpl) files generated in the course of building the various
papers in repro

The procedure for building a paper in repro/book/paper is

cd project; scons lock

(this command builds all of the results, both intermediate and final
(figures!) in the paper/project directory, and archives the figure
files in an appropriate subdirectory of RSFFIGS)

cd ..; scons

(this command converts the archived figure files in RSFFIGS into pdfs,
stores them in project/Fig, then runs LaTeX to create the paper pdf)

It is also possible to build all of the papers in each subdirectory of
repro to create an anthology ("book"), provided that the subdirectory
is equipped with an appropriate SConstruct file.

Building reproducible papers using remote HPC resources is a bit
trickier. See the paper repro/papers/madfigs for some recommendations.
